---
layout: post
title: Why Mexico? Keith's rant...
date: '2004-11-04T19:16:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
categories: mexblog
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:13.547-07:00'
---
Thanks for your note and interest in what we are doing. We miss Eliot
Church too.

Surprisingly, very few people have actually asked us why: Why Mexico
instead of Tyngsboro? I think it is simply because we started to dream
about what we would do if we didn't have to work; where we would live if
we could live anywhere. Would we choose to hunch over a computer monitor
and electrolysis equipment all day? Were we doing that just to sustain a
lifestyle we didn't love anymore anyway? Sure, pools, patios, and
landscaped yards are great but they required a lot of work too! Paying
someone to help with housekeeping is one thing - but yard care?! No way.
Where *is* the good life? Is this it? Isn't there some place we can live
with some decent weather?

And taxes! Health insurance! Social Security? I could rant and rave
about these all day - but I'll spare you.

Then I started to borrow books from the library, including: *The Joy of
Not Working* and *How to Retire Happy, Wild, and Free* (both by Ernie
Zelinski), *How to Retire Early and Live Well with Less Than a Million
Dollars* (Gillette Edmunds), and some by other authors that I can't
remember at the moment. More than one mentioned the possibility of
retiring well for less in Latin America. So I found more books,
including: *Live Well in Mexico* (Ken Luboff), *Choose Mexico* (John
Howells), *Live Well South of the Border in Mexico* (Mike Nelson), and
the classic *The People's Guide to Mexico* (Carl Franz).

Meanwhile, long before all this of course, I had been tending an
investment portfolio with only one goal: retirement. I made tons of
mistakes here of course, but was always fully invested in stocks, and
the 80s and 90s were golden. I now have an investment philosophy with
which I'm quite confident. I highly recommend *The Four Pillars of
Investing* and *The Intelligent Asset Allocator* (both by William J.
Bernstein, with some duplication).

And then the real-estate market in Tyngsboro seemed like it might be
reaching a plateau...

I did the math; made some educated guesses. We chose to give early
retirement in Mexico a try for now... if nothing else, for a short-term
diversion from the same old same old.

Whew! I'm sure that is much more than you wanted to know! I'll probably
put some of it in our Frequently Asked Questions sometime. I've been
wanting to rant about this for quite a while...
