---
layout: post
title: Feng Shui, fresh chicken, and other stuff
date: '2004-11-04T14:08:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
categories: mexblog
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:12.232-07:00'
---
My mood fluctuates a bit. This is a new morning, fresh air, fresh
coffee, things are good! I started to write last night but was too
introspective and a bit down perhaps.

We are getting along fine here. Although, we don't feel quite totally
settled here in this house. The house we rented over the Internet is
quite adequate, even good perhaps, but we are still tempted to see what
else is out there. It would mean breaking a 6-month lease which I don't
want to do. But rentals are so tight that they could probably easily
re-rent it, possibly without penalty to us. Yesterday we went to look at
a *casita* (guest house on the same property as a main house). It is
within walking distance to the more interesting village and in a quieter
neighborhood. But I didn't really like it much. It was a geodesic dome,
with small rooms off the sides. I would rather be happy with what we
have, but there are some little barking puppies two doors down that
annoy us sometimes. \[OK, more than that. Leigh went over yesterday and
mimed that she was pulling her hair out over the barking puppies!\] And
other dogs as well. We can also hear some of the trucks on the main
road, but that's not really too bad. We've spent enough energy getting
this place up and running that I really don't want to start all over
with another house. Yesterday, we rearranged the furniture again. We say
we are improving the Feng Shui. It is looking pretty good now, although
the guest room needs some work. We realized it is partly because there
are no paintings on the walls, etc. But the beds and closets are clean
and ready for visitors. There is one very obvious thing we have to fix
in the living room yet. There is a fireplace with no screen or anything.
So the cats were going in and getting all sooty. We blocked it by
jamming an end-table into it and stuffing a towel around it. Very bad
Feng Shui!

We are getting more adventurous with cooking and eating out less. This
week we went to two outdoor markets and then prepared meals from the
produce. Buying raw chicken at the outdoor market is our latest feat. It
seems to be very fresh. Better than the supermarkets at home. Leigh made
a great stir-fry on Monday and soup yesterday. We'll probably venture
out to the pork next. It is said to be excellent as well.

As for fun we have a free Yoga class three times a week. Then we have
church which I told you about. We've been having dinner with some of the
church people about once a week. The sports nut (and I too) have been
watching the Red Sox and Patriots. Last week the Patriots game was not
televised but we listened to it live over the Internet. I joined the
Lake Chapala Garden Club a couple weeks ago while Leigh was in Las
Vegas. It meets once a month and includes a home tour, followed by a
lunch and short lecture. I missed the home tour because it was my first
meeting and didn't know the routine. I heard it was a fabulous
property.

I was sick some last week. I'm not sure if it was the flu or what. It
didn't last too long. One day my body ached and was sensitive to touch.
I slept all day and all night practically and it was much better. Then I
also had some stomach problems and diarrhea. Somebody at church told me
to go to the pharmacist and ask for the medicine for amoebas. I did and
finished the last dose last night. It may have been going away on its
own, or maybe the medicine worked, but I'm feeling much better now.

Leigh had a good trip to Las Vegas and back for the AEA convention. The
only problem was the day she left Guadalajara there was fog and her
departure was delayed five hours. She was a couple hours late for the
first meeting she needed to attend but other than that everything worked
out pretty well.

OK. I'm pretty well typed out.
