---
layout: post
title: "(Yet another) We're here !"
date: '2004-10-14T08:48:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
categories: mexblog
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:12.856-07:00'
---
Thank you for the nice greeting.

We just got our email at home up and running a couple days ago. Then
Leigh took off for a conference in Las Vegas early yesterday morning. I
just talked to her actually. She had a five-hour delay in Guadalajara
due to early morning fog. Here at Lake Chapala, it hasn't really been
foggy in the morning but it can be a little overcast. Then it always
clears and gets up to the high 70s or so.

We both wanted to let you know that we are doing fine. It will be three
weeks this coming Thursday since we arrived. The last couple of days at
home were pretty terrible as we were packing and packing and still
packing even as the movers were loading up the truck. But it all got
done and moved into a friend's basement. Then the next day, our last day
in MA, we had to keep going to finish a bunch of loose ends and take the
car to another friend's house for storage. Finally, another good friend
helped us finish at the house, stayed overnight with us, and took us to
the airport in the wee hours of the morning. The sale of the house
closed as we were getting into Guadalajara.

We traveled with our two cats in their carriers under the seats in front
of us. We had one connection in Atlanta. The cats were slightly sedated
and resigned themselves to their fate without too much protest. Once in
Guadalajara we still had to taxi to the Lake Chapala region and deal
with the rental agency for a couple hours. So it was a long day for all
involved.

But we made it! Our rental house will be fine for the duration of the
six-month lease, and then we'll see if we can move up a little. We are
in the lower-end section of a nice neighborhood with middle-class
Mexicans and a few other gringos on the street. Further back from the
main road, the homes get a bit nicer, with beautiful views of both the
lake and mountains. We had to do the usual cleaning and maintenance to
make it comfortable, but all in all, it will do nicely. It is only one
block from the bus stop and a short walk to a grocery store and a few
restaurants. Given that we don't have our car yet, it is pretty much
just what we needed.

We are getting most of the basics worked out (like Internet access!) but
aren't doing much in the way of cooking yet. Without the car we are
limited to where and how we can get supplies, so we do a lot of eating
out. The prices at restaurants are maybe about half of what they were
back home - so it doesn't feel very expensive by those standards.

You'll be pleased to know that we've found a non-denominational,
English-speaking, "Little Chapel" (average attendance about 45 people
right now) within walking distance to our home. We've been there three
times and have already met quite a few people. There seems like there is
some kind of Christian breakfast, Bible study, or other fellowship to go
to nearly every day if one were so inclined. Leigh has been to a few.
I've only been to two after-church lunches and a "Second Sunday Sing",
i.e. hymn sing. We like it. The man working in the rental office, as he
was bringing us out to the house, said he sang in the choir there as he
drove by. That's how we found it.

I'm about typed out for now and have to get on to my Spanish lesson for
the day before my brain gets too tired...

Best regards,

Keith and Leigh
