---
layout: post
title: Border crossing story
date: '2004-12-11T16:36:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:11.561-07:00'
---
We arrived safely with no incidents. We were on the road a total of nine
days - but spent a whole day at Mammoth Caves in Kentucky, another day
in Memphis, and about six hours in San Antonio, TX.

Didn't have any problem crossing the border. Took us about two hours to
pay duty at customs, pass through immigrations, and import the car - and
we were on our way. I had been very anxious about it. But we were
prepared and knew what to expect so all went fairly well.

Our funniest story:
We had been warned that the place to register the car was hard to find -
but that there are signs. Well... we're doing OK until we see a sign
with an arrow but the arrow has been painted over. Our best guess is
that we cross the road and turn left. We do it. Traffic gets thick and
soon we see that we are going to have to pay a toll. Wait a minute!?
We're not crossing back over the bridge to the USA are we? We look
really confused. Someone picks up on our dilemma and stops traffic and
guides us in front of a bus that is blocking us. A uniformed women says
"Auto Registration?" and we say "Yes". She gets the point across that we
should use a little area to the left to turn the car around so that we
are heading back toward the three lanes of traffic all trying to merge
and go across the bridge. She stops the cars in our lane and clears a
path for us to go against traffic and take a right hand turn. We head
back. A guy says "I'll show you the turn!" and jumps on the back of our
car. He's giving us directions as we retrace the path we had taken about
5 minutes ago. We start getting our "tip" money ready. The guy on our
trunk is obviously an entrepreneur who has found a unique niche market.
We get back to the sign with the arrow painted over. Ah... We have to
cross TWO lanes, onto a little access road, and then turn left. We go a
little further. He says stop, hops off, and we hand him three dollars.
He looks terribly disappointed. He says "Most people give me ten..." I
tell him that is all we have for him. He says "OK, five". No, sorry.
"But I have to take a taxi from here to get back." We seriously doubt
that this is the case as we're only about a couple minutes away from
where we started! We thank him again, roll up the window, and drive
on... Everything else goes smoothly... \[Three dollars is a fair hourly
wage in Mexico so we do hope and feel that he was fairly compensated for
his five minutes. Can't blame him for asking though!\]
