---
layout: post
title: Hola de Mexico
date: '2004-10-22T15:52:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
categories: mexblog
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:13.818-07:00'
---
I feel badly that I haven't called yet after saying I would. Things were
totally hectic at home trying to get the stuff packed up and out of the
house. We were still packing both at home and at Leigh's office while
the movers were loading the truck. But it all got done and the house
closing went through on schedule.

Leigh's actually in Las Vegas this week. She's involved with AEA again.
This time as Director of IBEC (International Board of Electrology
Certification). If she knew she was moving to Mexico she probably
wouldn't have taken the position. Then again, it will give her something
to do. I just remembered that I told you all this already in connection
with the desktop publishing stuff. We haven't done anything in that
regard yet although Leigh says she has to get going as soon as we get
our good computer down here.

It's three weeks yesterday since we've been here. We're getting along
pretty good. The house we rented sight unseen over the Internet is OK
for what it is. It is one block from the main road, which is good
considering we don't have our car yet. We just walk a block to catch the
bus that runs every twenty minutes or so. We can also walk to a grocery
store and a few restaurants. Most of the nicer homes are a few streets
back or in other neighborhoods, but this is working for us for now. We
have a six month lease. More properties should become available in the
Spring but the two cats will be a problem. Prices and interest in the
region is high again after a long slow spell. The stock market
rebounded, AARP did an article, and the lake recovered quite a bit after
being very very low. Bad timing for us. We'll see. We don't even know if
this is what we want to do long term. It's pretty good for now though.

I'm set up with DSL Internet (over the phone line) at home now. I guess
it has been a week already. It felt like a major success when I finally
got the modem and got it working. I'm using a service through TelMex,
Mexico's telephone system, and the day I was there they only had one
modem available and I got it. Of course, that was the second time that I
waited two hours to talk to the representative. The first time I was
told that they didn't have the type of modem I wanted, so I had to come
back. I had a certain amount of distrust and wondered if this was a case
one reads about where a small "tip" would have expedited matters. In the
end I think everything was totally legit and that I was treated
fairly.

I did have one experience recently where a clerk purposefully tried to
trick me out of about $90 pesos change. Another time I paid double for a
couple tacos and the owner chose not to correct me - maybe he was just
being polite ;). I had a lot of paranoia that the water delivery guy was
over-charging me but that has worked itself out...

The weather is great here. I little warmer than usual so they say.

There is someone speaking Spanish outside through a loud-speaker again.
I hear her almost every day. About the only words I can pick out are
*muy importante*. Not knowing whether it is something important or just
someone trying to sell something is *muy* bothersome. She could be
saying we are about to be hit by a missile or something. Then again, I
don't see anyone running for cover. I might have to ask someone what
that's all about...
