---
layout: post
title: Getting the basics figured out
date: '2004-10-18T14:42:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:13.022-07:00'
---
Two long weeks without Internet access at home has finally came to an
end (on Friday actually). Hurray!!! I'm glad Holly kept you informed by
forwarding our emails. Now that we are back on the notebook computer we
have access to our email address book, sent emails, and English
keyboards!

How are you guys?

We are doing just fine down here - getting the basics figured out slowly
but surely.

Leigh left for Las Vegas early this morning. I was up late then got up
with her around 5:00 AM. I had to go back to bed then slept in till noon
so I'm pretty well all messed up today. After that I caught the bus into
Chapala to see if I could find the (open air) market and post office. I
had thought the market was bigger then the one in Ajijic (the other
direction) but either I didn't find it, it was already closing down, or
it isn't as big. I'll try again next week maybe. \[The market in Ajijic
is Wednesday.\]

Finding the post office was interesting. I received a couple different
set of directions. Perhaps it is because I was asking for "*oficina
postal*". When I finally found it the sign said "*correo*" \[Aha! I
remember that word from my prodigy.net.mx email account too\]. I asked
if I could rent a box and the man said they only rent from January to
January. Interesting. There is no local mail service here and most local
people don't have post office boxes either. They don't do much by post.
They wait in line to pay bills a lot instead. But taxes are practically
non-existent! \[There is a Mail Boxes Etc. nearby that rents boxes but
they are expensive and I'm trying to go local. In contrast, the Mexican
post office box is only $15 USD a year!\]

The cats made the trip pretty well. Then again, I didn't experience it
quite like they did. Leigh took a very small amount of food and litter
with us but transitioning them to products available here was one of our
first priorities. Unfortunately, Bella seems to be having trouble
adjusting to the food and has a bit of diarrhea. I guess it is the kitty
version of *la turista*. We are concerned about her but expect her
system to adjust soon. Thomas didn't have any problem at all. But he's a
big tough guy who just loves to eat.

I've got to do my Spanish lesson before my brain gets too tired today.

Stay well!
