---
layout: post
title: Why Mexico? Leigh's version
date: '2005-01-02T07:57:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
categories: mexblog
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:11.877-07:00'
---
Our Christmas was indeed different than any other thus far! We are in
such a time-warp because of the move, lack of weather-cues, decorations,
traditions, etc. that we felt rather unprepared for the holiday. We
enjoyed learning some of the traditions of the Mexican people and found
some Christmas concerts to be quite lovely, but all in all, the holiday
passed without too much fanfare. We went for a long hike with two other
couples on Christmas morning. It was really nice. There are several
small mountains to explore in the area and the views can be quite
stunning. We are still adjusting to the altitude (5000+ feet above sea
level), so although we were the youngest in the group, we were often
pulling up the rear!

Why Mexico? Well, the weather in this area is perfect just about all
year and it's extremely pretty with amazing sunsets! Gardens bloom year
'round and outdoor living is the norm! For nature buffs, like us, that's
pretty close to heaven! The cost of living is less than the Northeast,
although not as inexpensive as one would initially think. Because the
weather is so nice, no heating or air conditioning is required and there
are no property taxes to speak of - another huge savings. Health care is
affordable and quite good. Health insurance is available for a tiny
fraction of costs in the States (being self-employed we were paying
exorbitant monthly premiums) and housing costs, although not
inexpensive, are less than where we came from.

Great weather, affordable living, and a change of pace (I'm loving the
relaxed life-style) were what drew us away from the same-old, same-old.
Keith has been dreaming of retiring young for probably half of his work
career! Thanks to his earnings, savings and investments, here we can do
that. In the Northeast, we would have to work another 10 years or so and
then we would still have a house that was too big for us, and weather
that stinks!! We decided there was no time like the present for a
change! We really assessed what is important to us, right now. We
decided that time - for our interests and with each other should be a
priority. As I was saying my good-byes and closing up my business, I was
asked many times why Mexico. Often I answered that I wasn't really sure
why, but that there was definitely a pull...and that I have faith that
in time we will know why.

In the meantime, it was a strong enough pull to make the move. No
regrets yet. There is so much to learn - from immigration status,
getting household goods here, car importation (crossed that hurdle
already) to shopping and cooking, that we are enjoying the challenges
our new life presents. We've met some wonderfully nice people too. Other
ex-pats like ourselves mostly, although we have a couple Mexican friends
who are married to North Americans. It's interesting and challenging
making new friends when you are older. Children have a much easier time
of it...

We are not in a remote area of Mexico at all. There have been
ex-patriots here for about 50 years and they have paved the way quite
nicely! The infrastructure is excellent with many good restaurants,
shops and galleries. An International airport is 20 miles from Lakeside,
and Guadalajara (Mexico's 2nd largest city) is 30 - 35 miles away. It is
a city with everything you need (including Home Depot, Wal-Mart, etc.)
should you be missing the commercialism of the States! The historic
district of the city is lovely and offers many cultural opportunities.
If I could just get over my fear of driving in the city, we would have
so much to explore!! Guadalajara driving intimidates me, no it's more
accurate to say it scares me! I can't read a map in a moving car, so
Keith always navigates and I drive.
