---
layout: post
title: Home, Sweet Home
date: '2005-08-18T10:42:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
categories: mexblog
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:13.253-07:00'
---
We are settling back into a daily routine again after oh so long
traveling and dealing with pressing issues both here and in New England.
It is so great to be back home and looking forward to a time of relative
tranquility.

First, of course, was our trip to Yellowstone and The Grand Tetons. It
was fantastic. There was so much to see - although two and a half weeks
on the road is about our maximum. I hope to blog about the trip soon (a
chance to relive it in the process.)

We returned home to the dreadful news that Leigh's Dad had passed away
unexpectedly that very morning, after a brief hospitalization. We
quickly regrouped and flew to New Hampshire to be with Leigh's Mom.
Although her situation is difficult and a long story in itself, we feel
that she will be able to manage on her own successfully for quite a
while. We are helping as we can with paperwork, legal, and medical
issues. This situation represents a new journey for all of us and we
appreciate your prayers and positive thoughts.

Returning from almost two weeks in New Hampshire we were reminded that
the end of our 6-month lease here at Vista del Lago was now only 60 days
out - time to decide what next. Somewhat mixed messages from the
landlord combined with a 10% rent increase kicked us into search mode.
After more than two weeks of driving around, making phone calls, looking
at properties, etc., we're happy to say we are staying right where we
are for the upcoming year. Even the 10% increase, an initial sticking
point, now seems justified - the bulk of it will support the
legalization of a pirated satellite system.

Then it was back to New England to check up on Leigh's Mom, attend a
50th wedding anniversary party, and the main event, Megan's wedding.
Leigh's Mom seemed much improved. We were able to make more progress on
paperwork, bills, repairs, etc. The 50th wedding anniversary party was
lots of fun and of course, the wedding was great! It was super seeing
all of you (you know who you are) - I only wish we had had more time
together. We spent most of our time with Leigh's Mom but did have a few
wonderful days of relaxation at Holly's and Andy's. (Thank You!)

We've been home again now for one week. Somehow it feels like one
extended very long trip which we are happy to have behind us. We've come
back to this areaâ€™s fantastic weather. Leigh heard a women once say "You
can put up with an awful lot for this weather." - and that about sums it
up. We've also come back to a major surprise - high speed Internet.
(Yay!) Some combination of competition and the landlord's persistence
has paid off - and it's all included in the rent. Life is good!
