---
layout: post
title: February's visitors
date: '2006-02-17T13:04:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:12.399-07:00'
---
I'm writing this in the middle of May but want to recap February (and
later March) and our great visits with friends and family from NOB
(North of the Border).

Our first visitors were Holly and Andy (our best friends from NH) from
February 9th to 17th. We had a great time together. One of the
highlights was Lorie & Maureen's party at their home on the hill
overlooking Ajijic. The patios and gardens, designed for entertaining,
are multi-leveled and have spectacular views. There was a band that kept
the party lively and a cloudless sky with a full moon. We were able to
introduce Holly and Andy to a number of our friends so that made it
especially nice.

We took Holly and Andy to some of our favorite restaurants: Jose's
Place, Mom's, The Nueva Posada, Cozumel, Mario's. We also ate at the
local country club once or twice. We had memorable meals with our
neighbors Rick and Kay and another with an acquaintance and fellow
Mason, Bev and his wife Jean. We had a great excursion to Tlaquepaque, a
shopping and tourist district, which we had never been to before. We had
an excellent meal there as well, complete with Mariachis. We showed them
around Chapala, Ajijic, and San Antonio. We all enjoyed getting to chat
with an artist friend, Enrique. At one of the other art galleries, Andy
struck up a conversation with the artist about her photography and the
techniques involved.

Thanks to Rick and Kay's loan of the golf cart, Holly and Andy got to
enjoy a couple rounds of golf at the club. Holly seemed to especially
like the not-too-competitive couples play on Thursday afternoon.

We showed them our new home of course. Everyone agreed that it is going
to need lots of TLC. They also got to attend our famous Lakeside Little
Theatre where Andy got to meet the director of the play, one of the
original June Taylor Dancers!

Finally, in Guadalajara, we put them on a bus destined for Puerto
Vallarta and that's the last anyone has heard of them. (No. I'm kidding!
But Andy has a good story about their return flight and connection in
Houston - but that's a story for their own blog :). )
