---
layout: post
title: Christmas in Mexico City
date: '2006-12-31T08:12:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
categories: mexblog
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:11.645-07:00'
---
We had a fun trip to Mexico City over Christmas this year. The city was
decorated quite nicely for the holidays with lots of lights and
nativities. We stayed in a hotel right on Avenida Reforma, possibly the
main avenue of the city. We could walk in one direction to the expansive
Chapultepec Park, and in the other, to the historic downtown. Nearby,
there were plenty of moderate priced restaurants, so it was really a
great location.

The downside of the trip is that Keith caught a bad cold about mid-week.
The close quarters of the tour bus, together with the very dry air,
especially in the hotel, along with the air pollution and more dramatic
temperature variations all conspired together for some serious sinus
problems. I choose not to go on the tour the thirteen-hour day to Taxco
but went all the other days. Leigh started to feel the effects toward
the end of the trip but not to the same level.

The upside is that it is truly a great city that we would definitely
consider visiting again. Although we are not crazy about organized
tours, we feel that we could not have seen nearly as much or have the
same level of appreciation if we had planned the trip ourselves. Our
tour guides did a good job hitting all the major sites in record time
while giving us an appreciation of the history as well.

The highlight of the trip was attending a performance of The Nutcracker.
We happened to see that it was playing at the Auditorium, found that
tickets were still available, bought the tickets and saw the show all
within a couple hours. We had great seats too - front and center. It was
spectacular.

The archaeological site at Teotihuacan with the two pyramids, the Sun
and the Moon, was very impressive. It is a fascinating place, an already
abandoned city when found by the Aztecs. There are way too many vendors
selling handicrafts, and much of what one sees has been "restored", but
it's great to let your imagination go wild and imagine civilization
there nearly two thousand years ago.

We attended Mass on Christmas Day in the Basilica of the Virgin of
Guadalupe. That's big! Catholic Mexicans have a special relationship
with their Virgin of Guadalupe that defies the understanding of my
Protestant and American upbringing. But it's a very special place to the
Mexican people and it was terrific being there on Christmas Day - big
big crowd.

Well of course we saw the Anthropology Museum, the Dolores Olmedo Museum
(works of Rivera and Kahlo), Chapultepec Castle and Park, the floating
gardens, the historic downtown and Zocalo, the murals of Diego Rivera,
Alemeda Park, the Pink Zone, and a few upscale residential
neighborhoods. We rather struck out on the dining, really happy with
only one meal at Andersons. We found the unadventurous but reliable VIPS
across from the hotel to be the best choice. Yes, sad but true; VIPS is
similar to a Dennys and owned by Walmart. Blame it on my cold, I just
wasn't up for a dining adventure most evenings.

All-in-all it was a good trip and a great overview of Mexico City. We'll
go back sometime. But if I get sick again that will be it.

Here's a photo of one of the many nativities lining Reforma Avenue:

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_3726.JPG)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_3726.JPG)

And here's a look from the top of the Sun to the Moon:

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_3739.JPG)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_3739.JPG)
