---
layout: post
title: Three and half weeks in New Hampshire
date: '2006-05-07T04:24:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:13.338-07:00'
---
We've been back in Vista del Lago for a week now after a very productive
three and a half weeks in New Hampshire.

Our first task was to prepare Marge's taxes with the help of my notebook
computer and TaxCut. Marge and Howard's bookkeeping system threw me a
couple curves but we got the job done in record time nevertheless. Marge
had done the bulk of the preparation work so it was really quite easy.
We've simplified things a lot by officially closing Howard's businesses
so next year's tax preparation will be easier still.

Marge is doing very well by the way. The difference is remarkable. The
current view is that as long as she protects her brain from further
injury she'll be fine. She's a very physical person however; and what
might just be a bad bump on the head to you or I could cause brain
injury to her. She has to be very careful.

Throughout our time in NH, we also got Marge set up with a new Money
Market account, a couple more Powers of Attorney, a Living Will, and a
Health Care Proxy. All of these are difficult issues for anyone to
consider. I really congratulate Marge on doing such a great job.

Our other big task was the preparation of our household goods for
shipment to Mexico. We are so thankful to have Rob and Laura's basement
to work in. I don't see how we could have done it in a storage unit.
Basically, we disassembled the tightly packed 10x20 ft. storage area (in
a corner of the basement) piece by piece; checked that each box was
already packed well or re-packed the ones we had opened; checked that
each box was numbered; listed its contents in our spreadsheet; and moved
furniture items aside. This left us with lots of things to re-package,
disassemble, pad, etc. until everything looked like it was ready to
ship. This task also included having a list of every piece of
electronics, including make model and serial number. Finally, we
assembled, checked and double checked our inventory for accuracy and
called it done.

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/Img_2932.jpg)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/Img_2932.jpg)

Moving day itself went quite smoothly. The 28 ft. trailer was delivered
a little early but Rob saw that it was positioned correctly. We got to
the house right at 8:30 AM and the movers were already there. We opened
up the bulkhead and the loading began. Scott appeared to do a great job
of wrapping and packing everything into the trailer. Such a great job
that we ended up with about 5 ft. left over. There's one or two
furniture items that we wish we hadn't sold that would have been nice to
have in that empty space. Unfortunately, it is very difficult to tell
how much will fit without actually doing it.

\*\*\* I now have a new rule. Leigh and I are allowed to accumulate a 28
ft. trailers worth of "stuff" but no more. Actually, I think that's too
easy. What's the next smallest size trailer? :-)

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_2941-1.jpg)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_2941-1.jpg)

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_2940-1.jpg)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_2940-1.jpg)

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/Img_2937.jpg)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/Img_2937.jpg)

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_2942-1.jpg)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_2942-1.jpg)

I little background information: We hired The Movers Lakeside to
coordinate the rest of the move. Our job was to pack and load everything
securely for transportation as freight and provide the inventory. The
rest of the paperwork, working with the customs broker, and unloading of
the trailer at our home in Mexico is part of the contract. If everything
goes as expected, it should arrive in two to three weeks.

\*\*\* I'm still holding on to a fortune cookie from The Lilac Blossom
in my wallet. It reads: "A smooth long journey! Great Expectations."

After packing day, we had one day to recover and return to Sutton. Then
one more big day at Amanda's (Leigh's cousin's) wedding.

Most of our photos didn't turn out. But here's Marge leading the Conga
line!

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/Img_2972.jpg)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/Img_2972.jpg)

And here's Barb (Leigh's cousin), Leigh, Marge, and Jill (Barb's
daughter).

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/Img_2963.jpg)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/Img_2963.jpg)

Many thanks to Rob and Laura for the use of your basement, Holly and
Andy for the comfortable lodgings and endless supply of delicious meals,
and Marge for the use of your truck. We couldn't have done it without
you!
