---
layout: post
title: November update
date: '2006-11-07T15:13:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
categories: mexblog
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:11.980-07:00'
---
It's been a long time since I've updated the blog. Here's what's
happening:

Right up there at the top of my list is that we are connected to the
world with high-speed Internet again (as of mid-September). I didn't
think it was going to happen, but we held out, refusing to go with
competitor's more expensive yet inferior product, and Telmex/Prodigy
eventually came through. Since then it's been great and very reliable.
(Except that thieves periodically steal all the underground cable, to
sell the copper, and it takes Telmex a couple days to restore telephone
service.)

Our new Internet connection has allowed us to install a Packet 8
Internet phone, similar to the highly advertised Vonage systems. (I had
it shipped to Leigh while she was in the states in October.) So now you
can dial our Houston, Texas phone number. It's the best number to call
as we can check our messages while traveling, forward calls, etc. We
have unlimited minutes so call us anytime. We can call you back if
Houston is not a free call for you. The phone's been up for about two
weeks. I think we have all the kinks ironed out now.

We're looking forward to our first visitor in our new house soon. Barb
is coming from New Hampshire for a little R&R. As well as showing her
around Chapala, we're planning a trip to the beach with two friends from
here too. It should be a great time.

Our guest room is shaping up nicely. The carpenter did a great job. He
added molding to the otherwise plain doors, then painted and antiqued
everything. We plan to have him do all our woodwork eventually. Our
construction handymen are doing great things too. They've put in a new
sliding door, cemented, painted, acid washed, etc. etc. Leigh and I have
even done a bit. Now if only the recently ordered bed would arrive on
time :).

Leigh went to the annual AEA convention in October again this year. The
week started with the CPE test review, the last stage of the test
development process. (As you may recall, she is AEA's Director of IBEC,
and has been working on the new study guide and test for over a year
now.) Then she attended the executive board meeting, the full board
meeting, and finally the convention. So it was a very busy week but very
productive.

Home improvements continue to occupy most of our time. Progress is slow
though. I finally bought an instant-on hot [water
heater](http://casa.keithandleigh.com/2006/11/11/on-demand-water-heater.html)
and installed it myself about two weeks ago. After some initial
disappointment as to how hot the water was, it now seems fine. The old
tank-type had multiple problems and was about to rust out entirely at
any moment. We no longer have to worry about lighting the pilot in the
morning, whether the pressure release valve is going to blow, or how
much water is left for the next person. Life is good! We've been
shopping in Guadalajara about once a week lately, mainly looking for
floor tiles that match our old ones that are no longer available. We
ended up finding some contrasting ones for use in our kitchen right here
in Chapala. I ordered them today. I hope they look good once
installed.

For photos of our current work in progress, see our companion website
[Casa de Keith y Leigh](http://casa.keithandleigh.com).)

That's it for now...
