---
layout: post
title: Enough for now
date: '2007-05-08T06:22:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
categories: mexblog
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:12.106-07:00'
---
Yesterday was Chuy's last day.

Yes, Chuy, Ricardo, and Nicolas have been working here almost every day
since February 1st. Yesterday was their last day finally, at least for
now. I could hardly wait for them to finish, but I think I'm going to
miss them too.

We chose in the end to go ahead and have the rest of the old sliding
steel doors replaced with aluminum sliders. This project alone probably
took about a month. Because the old doors had wings that were cemented
into the walls, removing them caused a lot of destruction. Repairing the
opening and squaring and leveling for the new door required a lot of
cement slinging, which is a very messy thing. Then the door opening
would be wide open to the elements for a couple days while Chuy
fabricated the door. Keeping up with the dirt and dust was a constant
battle. But... it's over now. The new doors are great. And besides, you
haven't really had the gringo experience in Mexico until you've lived
through months and months of renovation :).

The other very obvious improvement is fresh colorful paint in almost
every room. Leigh's done a great job of finding rich colors that go with
the rustico nature of the house. She did a lot of the painting herself
too, but in the end it was easier to let Chuy do it. They are neat and
exacting enough for our standards, and don't mind working on it until
you're completely happy.

We also decided to have the old patio surface removed and capped with
cement. The old surface was porous and could have been the source of
water problems in the lower level of the house. The new surface will
allow the water to drain away properly. It should someday be covered
with tile, but we'll leave this for a later more comprehensive plan for
the back yard. We've theoretically eliminated all potential water
problems - just in time for the rainy season (about a month away).

We still haven't done anything with the kitchen. Creating a nice kitchen
seems like such a major undertaken compared to fixing this here and that
there. But many many little things have been repaired or improved. It's
all very good.

I've been doing some electrical work. We now have electrical outlets on
both sides of the office and no wires running between computers. And the
electrical outlets are three prong and grounded! The wiring in this
house did not follow more northern logic or standards. I'm getting it
straightened out though. I keep telling Leigh that it will only take me
"one more year".

It's been a blessing just sitting in the (newly renovated) office
blogging this morning not worrying about what Chuy was doing or how I
could expedite. Our task for today and the next couple days will be just
trying to get things reorganized and back to normal.

I promise a few photos very soon so you can check out our new color
scheme...

Keith
