---
layout: post
title: Cobre - the wonder dog
date: '2007-01-23T08:22:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
categories: mexblog
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:11.081-07:00'
---
Cobre (Spanish for "Copper"), our new dog, has been a joy, but also a
bit of a challenge...

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_3927.JPG)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_3927.JPG)

His early history is somewhat vague. Our friends found him living on the
streets in San Antonio Tlaycapan. He would join them and their two dogs
for daily walks. Soon, they decided to take him in and nurse him back to
health. (He had a couple dog bites and looked thin.) Their gardener knew
of the dog and confirmed that he had been abandoned. Before long, his
wonderful disposition and good looks impressed everyone who met him. But
one of their existing dogs was very jealous. And besides, three dogs was
just one too many. Leigh convinced me to have him come stay with us. He
moved in the 1st of January.

Our challenges have included (many, multiple times): throwing up in the
car, eliminating in the house, eating the cats' food, escaping at the
pet store, escaping into the neighborhood (through the fence), tearing
up toilet paper and paper towels, chewing up electrical adapters,
howling relentlessly when we're not home, tearing the bricks out of the
back wall...

Most of these problems occurred during the first or second week. That's
when I started calling him "The Wonder Dog". The "wonder" being: "Why on
earth did we do this?!"

Fortunately, we've learned to adapt. Everything has had a reasonable
solution so far...

The good news is that he truly does have a great gentle personality -
maybe too gentle. I don't think he'll make much of a watch dog. He never
barks. I'm also afraid that he won't be able to defend himself against
dogs in the neighborhood.

He loves to go on walks, although he tires a bit soon. He heels
naturally, never pulls on the leash. He definitely aims to please.

We've had a lot of fun going to dog/people school together. The last
class is this Saturday. We're learning the usual basic commands. He's
really good at Down and Stay (he's a very relaxed dog). He's a bit slow
to get up and Come. But we're learning.

Yesterday was a tough day. He had "the operation". It was also
discovered that he has a serious case of canine venereal tumors.
Although it's serious, there are treatments. At this point we're
optimistic for a full recovery.

So that's all about Cobre. He really has been a joy! And Bella has
almost stopped hissing at him...
