---
layout: post
title: Cobre's Anniversary
date: '2008-01-06T17:08:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:13.209-07:00'
---
The best dog in the whole wide world has been sharing our home for a
year as of January 1st.

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_4399.JPG)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_4399.JPG)

The first six months were quite a challenge for us as we adjusted to
life with a dog. Cats are such different creatures!! Being cat people we
had a lot to learn. Luckily for us, Cobre is a very good teacher with a
sweet disposition and the handsomest face. We took six weeks of
"people-training" with Cobre in mid-January. He did very well, but we
didn't successfully instill the concept of come. This proved to be a
problem later in the year as he discovered how easy it was to take
himself for a run around the neighborhood while playing ball in the
yard. We tried blocking his exit with a stack of bougainvillea branches
which are thorny, that worked for a bit, but they had to move while Chuy
and the guys were here. When I put them back he decided a few scratches
were certainly worth the reward of being free. At the moment the
branches have been supplemented with an appliance box and he hasn't
escaped in a few days. A pet-containment system is being shipped from
the US as I write this update!

As previously posted, Cobre had a health scare soon after he came to us.
After 5 or 6 chemotherapy treatments he is tumor-free! Our veterinarian
said his youth and getting neutered were key factors in his recovery.
The chemotherapy treatments are the same as for humans, but dogs do not
feel nauseous or loose their fur. His energy level was lower than
normal, but if you didn't know he was having treatments, you'd never
have guessed it.

The first few times he was left alone in the house were anxiety-ridden
for him. He showed this by howling (as reported by the neighbors) and
tearing up toilet paper and paper towels. We decided everyone would be
better off if he was left outside when we had to be away from the house!
Several months later, during the rainy season, we had to leave him alone
inside as it was pouring rain and he doesn't have a dog house. We were
quite relieved upon returning home the first time that everything was as
we had left it! We left him alone a day or two later and when we got
back the sofa pillows were at the front door - intact - but were a sure
sign that he didn't really enjoy the quiet time in the house by himself.
Since then we have had no problem leaving him in occasionally when we go
out for a few hours.

Cobre doesn't bark much, but he does howl when he hears a siren in the
neighborhood or on TV, when I'm singing in preparation for Los Cantantes
concerts, when one of our neighbors vacuums and some classical music on
the radio sets him off as well. Barking might be better...

He loves to go for walks. In fact, I cannot put on socks without him
running from wherever he is in the house, then he dances in circles if I
reach for my walking shoes. I walk around barefoot most of the time! He
is an excellent walker and heels very well. I practice Spanish when we
walk or listen to "This American Life" podcasts. The exercise is good
for both of us.

This update wouldn't be complete without some mention of how the kitties
have adapted to the adoption of this beast. How's that for a clue? Tomas
tolerates Cobre very well. He doesn't get too excited unless Cobre wants
to play. Tomas doesn't play with anyone. Bella still hisses and/or
growls when he closes in on her personal space. One day her growls sent
him into a howl and scared the %\#@@ out of her! He is very good with
them and just wants to be friends. She hasn't figured out that when she
is quiet he ignores her, but that she's very interesting when she's
hissing and growling. I'm hopeful that Bella will learn to accept him in
the coming year.
