---
layout: post
title: Tenacatita
date: '2008-01-27T15:04:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:11.540-07:00'
---
In our continuing search for the closest best beach we traveled to
Tenacatita (about half-way between Puerto Vallarta and Manzanillo) the
week before Christmas.

Tenacatita is situated in such a way that one can enjoy both sunrises
and sunsets over the water. Here's a photo of a beautiful sunrise taken
right from the balcony of our hotel.

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_5171.JPG)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_5171.JPG)

The area is quite interesting because there are really four beaches,
each with their own distinct character, all within walking distance.
Here's a photo from around the side of one smaller beach, with the main
beach, the restaurants and hotels in the distance. The beach to the
left, not shown very well, has an area that's great for snorkeling. It
is rumored to be the biggest coral reef in Jalisco. Also, when the tide
is out, there is a shallow area called "the aquarium," full of colorful
fish in the clear water. Who needs snorkeling gear?

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_5180.JPG)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_5180.JPG)

Just on the other side of this point, not two minutes walking, is
another beach. We spent the bulk of one day there and had it practically
all to ourselves. It was a bit rougher, but we were still able to safely
enjoy a dip in the water. It was a beautiful relaxing spot.

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_5194.JPG)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_5194.JPG)

Finally, continuing around another corner, up the coast to the north, is
the fourth beach. It is to here that we would walk to see sunsets over
the water. It's probably not too great for swimming; it might be better
if you have a surf-board!

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_5189.JPG)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_5189.JPG)

We liked Tenacatita. It's just a little busier than [San Juan de
Alima](http://blog.keithandleigh.com/2007/12/one-hundred-percent-beach.html)
but still very quiet. There are only two working hotels, both in the
$250 peso range (approx. $25.00 US). The one we stayed in even had hot
water! We counted about twenty restaurants. People "camp out" there
during the day. They bring towels, books, toys for the kids, and as long
as they eat or order drinks, they stay as long as they want, usually all
afternoon! The restaurants close up tight by about 6 PM, so we made sure
to have a big mid-afternoon meal - lots of fish. While we were there,
they were getting ready for their biggest season - Christmas week into
New Years; apparently then it's packed.

On the down side, it's still a very long drive. It took between six and
seven hours. But it's a great place! I'm sure we'll be back...
