---
layout: post
title: Kitchen wrap-up
date: '2010-03-15T10:21:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
categories: mexblog
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:10.844-07:00'
---
It's time to conclude the kitchen renovation story so we can move on to
new adventures. This is old news to most of our readers, but it's
important to me to write the final chapter anyway.

[Kitchen update II]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url 2010-02-03-kitchen-update-ii %})
ended with us waiting for the rain to stop so the carpenter could deliver the
cabinets and get started with the installation.

The following morning the skies began to clear and they were able to
deliver two truckloads that afternoon. We made space in our living and
dining rooms so the cabinets could be stored safely inside. The wood and
craftsmanship both looked terrific! I had been concerned that the
polyurethane finish would make the wood look a little dark, but it
wasn't. Of course, with the natural wood, some pieces were darker and
others lighter, so we wondered how well it would all look once
installed.

A three-man crew began the installation the following day, Friday. Quite
a bit of time was spent setting up the bottom frame which would become
the foundation for the cabinets; the final leveling, measuring, and
cutting being done on-site. After that, everything fell into place very
quickly. By late Monday the base cabinets were installed and secured. We
were in contact with the granite guys and they came to measure that very
afternoon.

I was a little uneasy about the measuring for the granite. The measuring
tape waved around a bit much for me. With everyone in the kitchen at the
same time, speaking English with the salesman and watching the maestro
measure, and trying to understand the Spanish all at the same time, the
process was a bit overwhelming. I totally missed the measuring in the
laundry room.

The carpentry was finished by late Wednesday. Nice job! I was really
looking forward to a couple days off before the granite would arrive the
following week. Returning from a long walk with Cobre the next morning
however, I was surprised to see a truck in front of our house. I said
good morning and a casual "¿Qué pasa?" He pointed to the granite in the
back of the truck and my jaw dropped. The granite was here already!

The granite looked great with the woodwork and the other colors in the
kitchen. It was a little more exotic than some of the other options so
we had been a bit apprehensive - but it was right on. There was a snag
with the installation in the laundry room however. The granite was cut
for a backsplash along both the rear and right sides. This wasn't what
we had wanted or had shown in our drawings and we really didn't like how
it looked. We tried a workaround solution that I offered and liked well
enough, but Leigh was unsure.

Overall we were very happy, but the following morning I started to
regret not managing the granite better - measuring, cutting, and
installation. There were a few minor disappointments, a few lost
opportunities. Leigh just couldn't adjust to my compromise in the
laundry room either - never a good thing.

Finally we had time alone with our new kitchen. We went through every
cabinet, vacuuming, scrubbing, removing excess glue - making them our
own. I re-installed the dishwasher without too much effort. The kitchen
sink faucet and drain took a little longer. We noted just a few
follow-up items we would mention when making the final payment for the
carpentry. We got everything that had been shelved in the dining room
put away. The kitchen was up and running by mid-February, just in time
for our house sitter to use while we took a quick trip to San
Francisco.

The laundry room though had been put on hold. Leigh never got used to
the workaround. She eventually called to arrange for a new piece of
granite for the backsplash. They came earlier this week and we're much
happier now. Today I connected the faucet and drain. So except for some
very minor touch-up on the walls and floor, we're done. We love our new
kitchen!!

Finally, the photos:

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_6748.JPG)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_6748.JPG)

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_6747.JPG)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_6747.JPG)

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_6746.JPG)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_6746.JPG)

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_6749.JPG)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_6749.JPG)

