---
layout: post
title: Kitchen update II
date: '2010-02-03T07:36:00.000-07:00'
author: Keith
tags:
categories: mexblog
modified_time: '2020-07-24T10:35:11.960-07:00'
---
Here we are... eagerly awaiting the arrival of our kitchen cabinets, and
we're stuck in the middle of a week of rain. The carpenter's pickup
truck is loaded. But no one wants our cabinets getting wet!

It's been just over six months since my very detailed account of our
[kitchen rework]({{site.baseurl}}{% post_url 2009-08-02-kitchen-update %}).
Here's the latest:

The craftsmen here are great for their creativity and innovation. This
goes hand in hand with the fact that there seems to be a lack of
standards. "Que tu quieres," meaning "Whatever *you* want," is the
operative phrase. On the one hand, this is great. On the other, it puts
a lot of pressure on the homeowner to know exactly what one wants, and
to be explicit. The standards that do exist are in even metric units,
understandably. But appliances, made mostly for the US market, want
common dimensions such as 24 or 30 inches. And of course, there is
always the language barrier. With all that, I concluded that I should
just stay true to my engineering-design nature and background and create
a detailed plan - and the more detailed the plan the better.

We've had our current layout in mind for years now. But again, the devil
was always in the details. I tried a number of the online kitchen
planners and they were good for rough drafts, but everything was geared
toward prefabbed cabinets, and we weren't going to go that way. These
planners were relatively easy to use but not very flexible. In the end,
I decided to use Google's free Google SketchUp.

If there is any problem with SketchUp, it is that it is too powerful and
flexible and requires a bit of a learning curve. There are online
instructional videos, and they make it look *so* easy, but it still
takes a lot of time and experimentation. I rationalized that once I
learned how to use it I could more easily design other projects, so it
would be worth the investment. And this is turning out to be true.

With SketchUp, Leigh and I were forced to decide once and for all, how
many drawers we wanted here, how many doors there, how wide is this, how
tall is that, etc. For us it was a great exercise. The result was a
complete 3D model that we could view every which way and in every
detail.

SketchUp can export 2D images too. So here then is our final design:

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/Cocina%20de%20Ernesto%20v%2052A.jpg)]

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/Cocina%20de%20Ernesto%20v%2052B.jpg)

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/Cocina%20de%20Ernesto%20v%2052C.jpg)

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/Cocina%20de%20Ernesto%20v%2052%20D%200.jpg)

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/Laundry%2021A.jpg)

One of the carpenters we had in mind used SketchUp to some degree and
seemed comfortable on the Internet. So hey! Why not create a
collaborative workspace with Google Sites, a bilingual design document
with Google Docs, and host it all with Google Apps for Your Domain? (And
of course blog about it later with \[Google\] Blogger.) Really!

Check out: http://cocina.keithandleigh.com.
From there you can download our SketchUp model, our PDF design document,
and view photos of the kitchen and laundry room pre-cabinets.
*\[KEH 2020-08-01: The Google Site no longer exists, but that
[design document](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1tPKpxbT-5DOYRYc5IASsRd77Ik3R_3Nb/view?usp=sharing)
was really incredible. :) \]*

In the end we settled on another carpenter. We saw his work at a house
in the neighborhood - it was excellent. The homeowners gave him their
highest recommendation. We met with him and felt very good about the
initial meeting. Our design document went over very well. I'm sure
having customers who know what they want makes things a lot easier.
Later we went to his shop and it too seemed to have a very good feel to
it. We officially contracted the work December 2. It would be a week
before he could get started, then there was the two week break for
Christmas, so we knew it would be toward the end of January before we
would see any cabinets. That was fine. It was just great having the
decision behind us.

There has been only one snag so far. The wood sample that we based our
selection on did not have the full three coats of polyurethane. The
sample was lighter than the end result will be. We rather fell in love
with the lightness of the natural *rosa morada* and it took us a while
to adapt to the fact that the result will be just a bit darker. We're
fine with it now but it did throw us off just a bit.

In the meantime, we've also had a few loose ends to clean up. We've now
bought two new sinks, two faucets, a few drain parts, thirty-three
handles, and finalized the granite selection.

The granite was the hardest part. With SketchUp, I was quickly able to
generate yet another view, with dimensions, and email it to a granite
vendor in Guadalajara for a quote.

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/Cocina%20de%20Ernesto%20v%2052%20A.jpg)

The quote seemed reasonable. The vendor had a great recommendation from
friends of ours in the neighborhood. We had also met with them once
before and they were quite pleasant (and spoke English fluently). So we
decide just to make things easy and work with them without shopping
around.

When we visited their showroom about three weeks ago we had the
opportunity to go to their wholesale supplier's stockyard to pick out
the actual granite slabs. Surprisingly, we didn't much care for the
"Renoir" (the sample we used in our models) available at that time. We
did however like the "River Gold." The colors and texture were even
closer to what we had envisioned than our original sample:

[![]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_6515.JPG)]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/IMG_6515.JPG)

Being such a big decision, it took us two more days and another visit to
the stockyard to make the final commitment. But we're happy with the
decision and think it will look just smashing.

The actual granite work won't begin until the cabinets are in place. The
granite people make the final measurements so they bear the
responsibility for any mistakes. Sounds good to me.

And that brings us all up to date. Now if only it would stop raining...
